
This file describes how to generate earthlike planet cubemap textures.

1.  Generate terrain textures:

    For this step you need three input files:

    A. Heightmap data.  You can use heightdata.png, but you can also use your own
       source of heightmap data.  This should be PNG image data, 8-bit/color RGB, non-interlaced
       where the intensity corresponds to the altitude.

       Some good stuff is available here, as tif files:
       http://visibleearth.nasa.gov/view.php?id=73934

    B. "land" color data.  For this you can use land.png or you can make your own land
       color data.  The image should be PNG image data, 804, 8-bit/color RGB, non-interlaced.
       The top of the image correspondes to the land at sea level, and the bottom of the image
       corresponds to land at the highest elevations of your terrain.  The horizontal axis
       is indexed by the earthlike.c via a noise function, and provides variety and reduces
       the typical "rings" you get if you use only elevation as a color selector.

    C. "water" color data.  For this you can use water.png, or you can make your own
       water color data.  The top of the image corresponds to the deepest water and the
       bottom of the file corresponds to where the edge of the water meets the land.
       The horizontal axis is indexed by noise function.

    To generate the terrain:

      ./earthlike -B 25 -h heightdata.png -l land.png -w water.png -o yourplanet -S 31415 --bumpsize 0.5

    -B 25 telss the program to start with 25 "bumps" which are each up to 0.5 in radius.
    --bumpsize 0.5 controls the initial size of the "bumps"
    -S 31415 is just a random seed (you can change it to whatever number you like to get
       different results)
    (Run "earthlike --help" to see a summary of options.)

    The earthlike program will (eventually) produce 6 cubemap images of terrain:

      yourplanet0.png
      yourplanet1.png
      yourplanet2.png
      yourplanet3.png
      yourplanet4.png
      yourplanet5.png

    These are usable as-is, but you would probably prefer to have some clouds.
    You can view what this looks like by running mesh_viewer:

      mesh_viewer -p yourplanet

2. Generate cloud cubemap textures:

   For this, you again need three inputs.

   The idea is we are going to use earthlike, but
   instead of providing it with terrain elevation data, we are going to provide it with satellite
   cloud imagery which it will treat as elevation data.  So the first thing to do is get some
   cloud imagery.  Go to images.google.com, and type in "satellite clouds", then click on
   "Search Tools" and select "Size" -> "Large".  Then find a picture of some clouds you like.

   Then open up the cloud image in the gimp.  Desaturate the image (make it shades of gray) and then
   use the Colors->Curves option to boost the contrast, esp. make the non-cloud areas black, and
   make the white areas be white, but don't just blow all the highlights completely out.

   Export this as a png image (remove any alpha channel if necessary.)
   This will be your "heightmap data" for earthlike.

   For the "water" color data, just make a completely black square in the gimp and save it
   as a .png file.

   For the "land" color data, you'll want to make a gradient from black to white, with black
   at the top, and white at the bottom.  The gradient should be totally white by about 1/3rd
   of the height of the image, so black at the top fading to white as you go down the image
   reaching totally white by about 1/3rd down.

   Then run earthlike:

     ./earthlike -B 200 -b 1 -l cloud-gradient.png -w black-square.png -h ~/satellite-clouds.png \
		   -S 77573 --bumpsize 0.6 -o your-clouds

   This will produce 6 cubemap images.  You can view them with mesh_viewer:

     mesh_viewer -p your-clouds

3. Swirl the clouds

   Those clouds might be ok, but you might find that they aren't swirly enough.  So we can swirl
   them a bit with gaseous giganticus.

   First we have to remove the alpha channel though.  There is a script to do that,
   util/remove_alpha_cubemap.

     util/remove_alpha_cubemap your-clouds

   This will produce six new images:

     your-clouds-rgb-0.png
     your-clouds-rgb-1.png
     your-clouds-rgb-2.png
     your-clouds-rgb-3.png
     your-clouds-rgb-4.png
     your-clouds-rgb-5.png

  Then, run gaseous-giganticus to swirl the clouds for a bit:

    ./gaseous-giganticus -k your-clouds-rgb- -V --noise-scale 0.4 \
		--velocity-factor 5000 -B 0.45 --bands 3 -o swirly-clouds

  Once gaseous-giganticus produces the first set of images, you can watch its
  progress with mesh viewer while it runs.

    mesh_viewer -p swirly-clouds

  Once satisfied with the looks of things (which may take awhile) you can stop gaseous-giganticus
  between image production cycles (i.e. between the times that it prints 'o').

4. Mask the normalmaps

	$ ./util/cloud-mask-normalmaps swirly-clouds yourplanet-normalmap
	yourplanet-normalmap0.png X swirly-clouds0.png -> youtplanet-normalmap-masked0.png
	yourplanet-normalmap1.png X swirly-clouds1.png -> yourplanet-normalmap-masked1.png
	yourplanet-normalmap2.png X swirly-clouds2.png -> yourplanet-normalmap-masked2.png
	yourplanet-normalmap3.png X swirly-clouds3.png -> yourplanet-normalmap-masked3.png
	yourplanet-normalmap4.png X swirly-clouds4.png -> yourplanet-normalmap-masked4.png
	yourplanet-normalmap5.png X swirly-clouds5.png -> yourplanet-normalmap-masked5.png

5. Composite the cloud cubemaps with the terrain cubemaps.

   The cloud cubemaps created so far are black and white.  To composite them with the terrain cubemaps
   we construct an image with the right alpha mask.  One way to do this is to use the cloud images as
   an alphamask on a totally white image.  There is a program util/mask_clouds to do this.

     util/mask_clouds swirly-clouds

   This will produce 6 new images:

     swirly-clouds-masked0.png
     swirly-clouds-masked1.png
     swirly-clouds-masked2.png
     swirly-clouds-masked3.png
     swirly-clouds-masked4.png
     swirly-clouds-masked5.png

   These can then be composited with the terrain images:

     ./composite-clouds yourplanet swirly-clouds-masked

   This will produce the final 6 cubemap images:

     yourplanet-with-clouds-0.png
     yourplanet-with-clouds-1.png
     yourplanet-with-clouds-2.png
     yourplanet-with-clouds-3.png
     yourplanet-with-clouds-4.png
     yourplanet-with-clouds-5.png

